Date: July 23,2019

**Ryan McGuiness**
# Class Notes 7/23
**Reminders**
- Final August 9(1-4pm)
    - Accumlative mostly focus on new material tho
- HW4 due next week(Monday 29th)
    - chapters 12, 14, & 15
- Project #3 -  coding a hash table in C++. Code linked list, hash table, and analysis of the performance of each of those. We will get a list of names, show that linked list has O(n) and hash has O(1) runtime on average. We will be given prehash but we have to code it.
# Big O Notation
- **Big O Notation** - is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity.
    - O(1) - constant 
    - O(logn) - logarithmic
    - O(n) - linear
    - O(n^2) - quadratic
    - O(2^n) - exponential

## Hash Table/Set
- **Hash table** -  break a problem up into smaller part to find something at in O(1) time. 
    - A **hash table** uses a hash function to compute an index into an array of buckets or slots, from which the desired value can be found.
    -  A data structer that implements an associative array.
        - **associative array**  - it maps a key and returns a value.
    - **Insert** - (keyword) O(1) on average; O(n) worst case
    - **Remove** - (keyword) O(1) on average; O(n) worst case
    - **Find** - (keyword) O(1) on average; O(n) worst case
-  A has table only has a limited number of bucket when created. Therfore we put a linked list in each bucket.
- **Hash Function** -  maps a value to a bucket index in our array.  
    - obj --> f-->f2--> ix
    - f - Prehash  
    - f2 - hash
- If you have too many buckets than you will take up too much memory. Some of those buckets will be void too, because we have too much space.
- **The magic formaula** -  
    - input n
    - avg length LL m 
        - Such that : m<<n
- This works like the index of a text book. You look there first so you can find what you are looking for faster. 
- **Hash Set** -  the value is the key. 
    - Spell check and dictionary works like this. You want to see if that word is a valid word. We have a hash set of all the valid words in the english language. If the world is there its valid if not its not valid. 

## Properties of Prehash
1. Unique -  so you dont get any false positives
2. Stable - 
3. pseudorandom -  so the link lists dont get to long
4. irreversible -  you cant take the value and convert it     back to find what string it represents