Date: July 18, 2019

*Ryan McGuiness*
# Class Notes CSE109
**Reminders:**
* Pracitce midterm on coursite
* Review/ start studying

# Systems Programming
**System programming** - involves designing and writing computer programs that allow the computer hardware to interface with the programmer and the user, leading to the effective execution of application software on the computer system.

## Why use it?:
```
Was the system originally sold without this program? Angry Birds may be a "Killer App" for a smart phone (the reason why someone buys it), but it is still a separate third-party app written long after the phone was introduced. Writing it would have been applications programing. But the display driver of the same smart phone is essential to using it at all, so it would have been systems programming.
```

## Systems programming vs. Applications programming
 * The primary distinguishing characteristic of **systems programming** when compared to **application programming** is that *application programming* aims to produce software which provides services to the user directly (e.g. word processor), whereas *systems programming* aims to produce software and software platforms which provide services to other software, are performance constrained, or both.

# Operationg Systems
**Operating System** - the software that supports a computer's basic functions, such as scheduling tasks, executing applications, and controlling peripherals.

**Common Operations Systems**:
    * Mac OS
    * Chrome OS
    * Linux
    * Android

# C vs. C++
## Origins of C //and relationship to Unix
**C** - is a general-purpose, procedural computer programming language supporting structured programming, lexical variable scope, and recursion, while a static type system prevents unintended operations. 

**Functions of C** - By design, C provides constructs that map efficiently to typical machine instructions, and has found lasting use in applications previously coded in assembly language. Such applications include operating systems, as well as various application software for computers ranging from supercomputers to embedded systems.

## How is C different than B
B - had no structs, had no data types. 
- No data types “word”- 1 byte
- Struct- way to group data
        -Ex car:
            Color
            Make

## How is C++ differnt than C
The major difference between C and C++ is that C is a procedural programming language and does not support classes and objects, while C++ is a combination of both procedural and object oriented programming language; therefore C++ can be called a hybrid language. The following table presents differences between C and C++ in detail.
# Unix Philosophy

**4 Tenants :**
1. Make each program do one thing well
2. Compose programs into larger ones
3. Test early and often
4. Use tools to your advantage 
## Pros and Cons of Philosophy:
* What is an alternitive to the Unix philosophy?

* What are stdin and stdout? How do they relate to the Unix 
Philosphy?
    - Used to communicate 
    - Std in and stdout can be used to pipe between two programs
* What are unix pipes?
    - In Unix-like computer operating systems, a pipeline is a mechanism for inter-process communication using message passing. A pipeline is a set of processes chained together by their standard streams, so that the output text of each process is passed directly as input to the next one.
```
./program1 | ./program2
```
# Terminals
A **computer terminal** is an electronic or electromechanical hardware device that is used for entering data into, and displaying or printing data from, a computer or a computing system.

## Why do we use terminals?
* Things done in a terminal are easily repeatable.
     - It makes runing different inputs on the same program easier. Instead of having to write another program that would enter all the inputs that you want.
     - Easy to compose programs and create new ones.
    
* Tracking/Auditing is easier
* Things done in a terminal are easily repeatable.

## Terminal tools
* ssh
     - secure shell- opens a terminal and allows you to access another computer from a differnt location. 
* scp
     - allows you to upload and download files from another machine
* ls, cd
    - list & change directory

# C & C++ language syntax and semantics
- What is the main() function? why is it special?
- What are argc and argv.  Where do they come from?
    - When a program is run, the system passes an int parameter argc to main(), indicating the number of command-line arguments (argc is short for argument count). The number includes the program name itself, so argc is 2 for the command line:  myprog.exe myfile.txt.
    - When a program is run, the system passes a second parameter argv to main() (argv is short for argument vector), defined as an array of strings: char* argv[]. argv[] consists of one string for each command-line argument, with argv[0] being the program name.
- How does C/C++ object code run on the CPU?
    - When you compile it auto saves the object code
- How is C/C++ object code stored on the computer?
    - in a seperate file
- What is a source file?
    * Where you write your program
- What is an executable file? How do you generate it?
    * .exe
    * Generates by compiling source file
    * File made by the computer from your source code.
- Language Features
    1. Loops
    2. If/else statements
    3. Arrays/ Pointers
        * Dereferncing - *
        * Referencing - &
        * Pointer offsets
        * Allocation pointers/ arrays
    4. Functions
        * Passing by value

# Stack v. Heap
**Stack** - The region where a function's local variables are allocated during a function call. A function call adds local variables to the stack, and a return removes them, like adding and removing dishes from a pile; hence the term "stack." Because this memory is automatically allocated and deallocated, it is also called automatic memory.

**Heap** - he region where the "new" operator allocates memory, and where the "delete" operator deallocates memory. The region is also called free store.

## How to declare a stack variable
```
stack<int> mystack; 
```
## How to declare a heap variable
```
    // Initializing a vector 
    vector<int> v1 = {20, 30, 40, 25, 15}; 
      
    // Converting vector into a heap 
    // using make_heap() 
    make_heap(v1.begin(), v1.end());
```
- When is a Stack/Heap variable freed?

- What are the pros and cons of the stack/heap? When would you use it?
