Date: July 31,2019

Ryan McGuiness

# Class Notes
**Reminders**
- Lab 3 Thurs
- Program 4 Mon

# What Happens When You Compile?
1. **Lexer** - Reads in the source code and translates them into tokens. 
2. **Parser** - it checks for errors and breaks the tokens down one by one. It encodes the syntax of the language. In order to detect errors it determines what is not an error. 
3. **Compiler** - it rewrites the parse tree. It analyses and encodes the semantics. 
	- Syntax - the grammar of the language
	- Semantics - the functions of the language. 

--------------AST--------------

Graph-->List of Instructions (ByDepth 1st Search)

--------------ASM--------------

4. **Assembler** - turns those instructions that are psuedo english into actual machine code that is readable by a cpu. Has a bunch of outputs (object files):
	- LinkedList.o
	- HashSet.o
	- main.o
5. **Linker** - takes all of the files from the assembler and puts them together in the same binary file. 
6. Finally that file gets taken and puts them on the computer stack called the executable and waits for the terminal to act.  

- **Compile time** - is everything between pressing compile to when the file is converted into a binary file.
- The Binary file is then sent to the terminal
7. **Terminal** - the terminal starts the process (./appName) it goes to the stack and sends the object/executable(.exe/.o) code to the Loader. 
8. **Loader** - takes the object/exacutable code from the hard disk and puts it into computers main memory. Goest to the operating system, reserves a chunk of user memory space, and loads the program from start to finish in that chunk of memory. Intermidiary between terminal and operating system.

**CPU Schedule** -  operating system tells the cpu to do things. Program counter (PC). 

**Time Sharing** - like an alternator switch. It loads loads one byte at a time, but switches between programs one byte at a time and gives the allusion that two programmings are going at once. 

The terminal will them take it from the list and put it into memory. In memory the operating system will take the program counter and will start loading your program into registers.

- **Hard disk** - Stores large files for long period of time.

- **Main Memory** - Stores smaller files for fast usage.

Exam Qs:
- Draw skematic and fill what goes wear.
- difference between syntax and semantics.
- Whats does an assembler do.
- Everything that goes down when you compile.
- What a program counter is. 
- What an operating system does. 











