Date: 7/16/19
#Class Notes CSE109
**Reminders:**
    * office hours moved to 7/17
    * Assignment2 due 7/18
    * Test 7/22

#Memory Managing
- Pros and Cons for both ways of managing memory.
- **Managed**
    * Slow
    * Terse
    * Can lead to performance issues
- **Unmanaged**
    * Fast 
    * Verbose
    * Can lead to bugs

#Stack Functions
- Fixed size (known at compile time)
- When you exceed the space given in the stack you will have *stack overflow*
    * An easy way to accidently overflow your stack is by using too much recursion
    * To fix this you could change your stack size.
    * Use a loop instead of recursion
    ```
    int main() {      
     // All these variables get memory 
     // allocated on stack 
     int a; 
     int b[10]; 
     int n = 20; 
     int c[n];
     }
    ```

#Heap Functions for  Creating and Deleting Objects 

##C++
- **KeyWords:**
    * *new*
        -will create a new object and put that object on the heap
        ```
        Obj o = new Object();
        ```
    * *delete*
        -used as a statement to delete object(the one created with the *new* keyword)

##C
- **Keywords:**
    * *malloc();*
        - Runtime ERROR when memory is full but we still call *malloc*.
        - Does not initialize memory
        -initialize after allocation
        -call *free(ptr)*, when done
        - c-->malloc-->OS-->memory
           <--     <--  <--
        ```
        int* ptr = malloc(4);
        int* ptr2 = malloc(sizeof(int) * n);
        ```
    * *free(o);*

##Vocab
* **Stack Allocation** - The allocation happens on contiguous blocks of memory. We call it stack memory allocation because the allocation happens in function call stack. The size of memory to be allocated is known to compiler and whenever a function is called, its variables get memory allocated on the stack. And whenever the function call is over, the memory for the variables is deallocated. This all happens using some predefined routines in compiler. Programmer does not have to worry about memory allocation and deallocation of stack variables.

* **Heap Allocation** - Heap is a region of process’s memory which is used to store dynamic variables. These variables are allocated using malloc() and calloc() functions and resize using realloc() function, which are inbuilt functions of C. The memory is allocated during execution of instructions written by programmers. Note that the name heap has nothing to do with heap data structure. It is called heap because it is a pile of memory space available to programmers to allocated and de-allocate. If a programmer does not handle this memory well, memory leak can happen in the program.

* **Memory Leak**  - When memory that has been allocated is no longer referenced by any variable

#Key Differences Between Stack and Heap Allocations

1. In a stack, the allocation and deallocation is automatically done by whereas, in heap, it needs to be done by the   programmer manually.
2. Handling of Heap frame is costlier than handling of stack frame.
3. Memory shortage problem is more likely to happen in stack whereas the main issue in heap memory is fragmentation.
4. Stack frame access is easier than the heap frame as the stack have small region of memory and is cache friendly, but in case of heap frames which are dispersed throughout the memory so it cause more cache misses.
5. Stack is not flexible, the memory size allotted cannot be changed whereas a heap is flexible, and the allotted memory can be altered.
6. Accessing time of heap takes is more than a stack.

##MALLOC EXAMPLE
'''
//#include <stdio.h>
//#include <std
int main(){
    int* ptr = malloc(10 * sizeof(int));
    for(int i = 0; i< 10; i++){
        printf("%d", ptr[i]);
        ptr[i] = 0;
        printf("%d/n", ptr[i]);
    }
    free(ptr); //dont have to write free here because at this point in the program, because EVERYTHING is free already.
    while(1){
        leakMemory();
    }
    return 0;
}
void leakMemory(){
    int* ptr = malloc(sizeof(int) * 10);
    
    return;
}
'''

##Helpful Links
- https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/stack-vs-heap-memory-allocation/
